---
layout: post
title: tired | therapyspeak
categories: microblog
---

There is this current phenomenon of people learning a little bit about therepeutic principles and applying that superficial learning in every day life. Common examples include the adoption of therepeutic language, such as the popularization of terms like gaslight, narcissist, and trigger; the use of therepeutic classification as indentity labels, such as attachment styles, love languages, MBTI, etc.; and the self diagnosis with mental conditions without professional opinion.

I'm not sure what brought this phenomenon about, but in my anecdotal experience, it seems to be driven by the increased access to thereapy through education and social programs. Access to therapy via public school counselors, increased college attendance, greater public and private investment in social programs during and after covid, and, of course, the internet, have made therepeutic language commonplace for far more people. In the same way that gen z has grown up with the internet, they have been exposed to therapy all their life due to the effort their gen x and xennial parents put in to "breaking the chains of trauma" their parents never broke for them. 

I personally believe that the increased access to therapy has been an overall net positive for individuals and society. Some say that this generation has gone soft, but the truth is that the very people who say that have gone soft. The silent generation is all but gone, and boomers and joneses haven't known their own struggles since 2008 (unless you count them electing out the covid vaccine to their own detrement, putting the stick in their own bicycle spokes). I think it's pretty obvious that having to fight in another country's war to defend elitist nationalist ideals is worse than today's reality where children have the opportunity to explore their feelings, interests, and relationships. If you think that having feelings is a social woe, I'm woefully sorry for you.

But there is something concerning about the dispersion of therepeutic language throughout the commonplace. I have found that many use this language without understanding of what it means or the intention to use it accurately. I know a teenage boy who was accused of being an "abuser" by his gf og the same age. The allegations were taken seriously, this boy being brought into an office with police officers present all to find that he wasn't able to attend a birthday party. Obviously, this is an obvious case of a young person not having developed enough to understand the implications of the kinds of words they are using. Though this is a more exaggerated example, I don't think the common instances of this kind of misunderstanding of therepeutic terms are too dissimilar from this example in adults. 

It's possible that someone is rude without being a toxic narcissist. It's okay to break up with your partner without having commitment issues or being avoidant. A person doesn't have to fit into social/psychological categories like racist, misygynist or abuser for you to not prefer their company. It's okay if you don't like someone. And it's okay if the problem is with you, not them. You don't have to villfy someone to justify your own life. You don't have to be a survivor to justify your existence. 

I have seen those who don't have emotional trauma disregarded as incapable of understanding life or having emotional depth. I think we should celebrate that their life has been so good. I wish we all could have such a positive existential experience, and I think that should be our goal for future generations.
