---
layout: post
title: down | trust
categories: microblog
---

It's been a rough weekend. I've had a weekend and even spent it doing things I like to do with people I like to see. But it was still a rough weekend emotionally for me under everything else. 

That situation with that friend from a month or so ago is still bothering me. I still don't quite know what to do about that situation or what I even want from it. Additionally, there are other aspects of my life that cause me insecurity and constitute sticking points in my relationships, either between me and the other person or just withn myself--which would obviously lead to me causing problems between me and others. 

I wish I were better than I am.

I have found lately that I am tired of trusting people. I feel like people have broken my trust a few times in the past few months, and it's made me wary of exercising trust in the past days or weeks, I'm not sure which. Trust is an interesting thing, and I haven't viewed it in this way before. Whereas, trust has felt very transactional to me in the past--one earning my trust or losing it--I have noticed that trust feels more emotional recently. I am afraid of putting trust in people, and I feel myself turning away from people as a means of avoiding having to trust them. 

I guess over the past decade of my life I have stopped allowing people to control how my relationship with them looks. If someone is unwilling to treat me with respect, I have been willing to ask them to respect me and then spend less time with them if they could not. When people show me that they see my relationship with them to be a certain kind of relationship, I've been okay letting that be the case--if you are unwilling to be trustworthy, I am willing to withhold trust. 

Lately, I have been afraid to trust, given that my trust has been broken only a little less recently. 
