---
layout: post
title: secure | relationships are hard, man
categories: microblog
---

Today was a pretty good day. I haven't seen Caroline yet and it's already 11 pm. That's sad. I love her and I love to see her. 

I sometimes think about how lucky I am to have found her. Before I met her, I was pretty pessimistic about love. Looking back on it, I'd say I probably had a pretty realistic view of the circumstances surrounding love and that I still do, but my attitude about love was pessimistic for my personal situation. Though it's true that love is hard and/or uncommon, I didn't have much hope for myself. Now I feel the same way, except my attitude has changed from one of pessimism and lack of hope to one of optimism and gratitude for my great degree of luck. Idk what to do with this, but it's just how I feel

Today I met with a good friend. He is the husband of the friend who I had the falling out with. For the first time, I talked to him about what happened between his wife and me. They have a rule in their relationship about not talking to other people about problems between one of them and that other person. They don't do he said she said middle school playground kind of drama. If you have a problem, take it up with the person with whom the problem resides. 

So I haven't talked to him about it at all. But I needed to talk about something in particular. That thing being the little bit of mediation he has had to do in terms of covering for his wife in situations where she had a problem and he was trying to stay the neutral. In these situations, he would make up and excuse and tell a tame lie about the situation to feign neutrality or impartiality. I noticed one of these lies last week, which cause a bit of an emotional crisis for me given how severe the falling out was a couple months back. In contemplating that reaction, I realized that the falling out was very severe, and yet he had never asked me about how I was doing with everything. He never even mentioned it, which started to feel a bit indifferent for a person who calls themself a friend. 

So I brought it up. And I was surprized to discover that he was mostly unaware of the falling out that had happened. His lie from last week was pretty tame, not even really convering for anything that interesting, but he wouldn't have even thought of it as a problem given that he wasn't aware of the recent history between me and his wife. Upon hearing about the situation, which I didn't share in too much detail given their rule about talking about the other--I only share one or two superficial details that indicated the severity of the situation, he was very understanding, expressing his appreciation for my discretion regarding their rule and thanking me for bringing up the white lie situation with him.

I was really relieved that the conversation went well. I have felt a little uneasy about our relationship in the face of the problems between his wife and me, and didn't quite understand how he was maintaining it in spite of it all. It makes sense that he wasn't aware of most of it, which I've come to accept as the behavior of my other friend... I'm sure she's not proud of how she behaved or how she treated me, but in recent months, it also seems that she is content to continue to disregard my wellbeing and feelings. So I have taken several large steps back from that relationship and don't see myself engaging in that much further in the near future. I don't think I'm going to put myself in a position to be treated poorly by people, especially not making myself vulnerable to people who would derive joy from my pain, harm, or mistreatment. 

I don't really know what I'm doing. The older I get, the more I realize that everyone is just making it up as they go. Nobody really has a solid grasp on anything and we are all just big sexy babies that expect the world to be a safe place to grow and learn. I am no different from my friend who hurt me, she is doing the best she can do with the hand that she's been dealt. 
