---
layout: post
title: content | a day off
categories: microblog
---

Yesterday Caroline's grandparent's were in town. Well, they had been in town for most of the week, but I took the day off work to spend the day with them and Caroline yesterday. 

We started the day at Ruth's Diner in Emigration Canyon in Salt Lake. It was a fun place to go for brunch with good food. Actually, I should say that the night before we went to the Captial Grille in SLC. A pretty standard, tho very nice and expensive steakhouse. Everybody got a steak, even though I don't typically eat red meat, and it was all really good. They also had some really good sides. It's a pretty mild review, and I wouldn't necesarily say that it was a must-try experience, but it was certainly very kind of Caroline's grandparents to take us out to such a nice and expensive dinner. 

After the diner in the morning, we headed out to Park City to just walk around and see some shops. I think they really enjoyed the time out there. Then we went on a car ride through the Big Cottonwood canyon. I fell asleep in the car and I guess that was quite comical to everyone. I do snore quite a bit, and I assume that must have been part of the humor. 

It was really nice to spend time with Caroline's folks. I always love getting to meet the people in her life, and generally they seem to like me, which makes me feel good. Obviously, there is quite a bit of validation that comes from being liked by the people in a partner's life. 

Today was a pretty good day. I worked from Caroline's apartment and spent a lot of the day with McGee. The only thing I would change about the day is how much time I spent working. Working is such a waste of everyone's time. We should all be spending more time with loved ones, seeking real fulfillment in life. It is an actual tragedy that we spend so much of our lives building the empire of some guy's dream so he can spend his fortune on killin Twitter or some shit, idk. It's fucking stupid. Just let people enjoy their lives, and make it possible for them to do so.
