---
layout: post
title: exhausted, happy | bouldering meditation
categories: microblog
---

I had a hard time sleeping last night. It got really cold and I didn't quite have the set up for the temp. 

Caroline had let me borrow her whole backpacking set up, specifically for hammocking. It was really nice and a fun experiment, but there were a few challenges with the heat in the hammock. For the most part, I was comfortable and warm enough. The hammock has a liner that Caroline suggested I used under the hammock instead of inside of it. She also has a sleeping bag that is rated for below the temperatures that we hit last night. But, I had set up the hammock at a slight angle, which made me slowly slide down the hammock throughout the night. Though I was warm enough for the most part, the only part of me that was pretty chronically cold last night was my feet... I had wool socks, and all my gear on, but I still woke up several times throughout the night. Caroline had even recommended filling a Nalgene bottle with boiling water when I went to bed, which I did, but we ended up splitting a liter of water between three bottles, and that just didn't keep me warm through the early hours of the morning. 

The only reason I do know that I slept for sure is because I remember having several dreams last night. Unfortunately, two of them were back-to-back nightmares. The first being a dream that Caroline decided she didn't want to be with me any more and the second being a dream about a dear friend deciding that he didn't want to be my friend anymore. I think given my recent incident with a close friend who did express that they didn't want to be friends anymore, it's not really too much of a wonder where this dream may have come from. It's funny though, on the hike back out from White Pine Lake, Aadesh asked me what was my deepest fear. He told me I could think about it but I was ready to answer immediately: my deepest fear is that the people I love won't love me. This has been a deep fear of mine for as long as I can remember. With divorced parents (one of whom I have come to regard as a master manipulator), being a divorcé myself, and have a number of toxic relationships (romantic or otherwise) in my past, I don't think it's much wonder why my deepest fear is that the people I spend the most effort on might not appreciate that effort. 

I don't know that there is much to talk about there. It's sad, but I don't think it's a particularly unique fear. I think the fear of rejection is very prevalent. The best I can do is to acknowledge that I have fears, that I have many other emotions as well. When I can tell that I am being overcome, motivated, or influenced by strong emotions, the best thing I have learned to do is acknowledge that emotion rather than trying to supress it or act as though it's not affeceting me. Previously, I was determined to work through issues "logically" in spite of my emotions. In somewhat recent years, I've realized that my emotions are everpresent and play a large role in the way that I think about things. Not only do they play a role, they are often a very important aspect of decision making and they _should_ be considered! So, the best thing I've learned to do is recognize when I am experiencing an emotion. And when that emotion is affecting another person, I've found that letting them know how I'm feeling and that my actions may be influenced by that emotion is super helpful to them, especially when it's a person who genuinely cares about my wellbeing. I've noticed this most in my relationship with Caroline since reading Attatched, and she has been my dream partner in every way she has responded to my emotional openness. 

I definitely slept in quite a bit since I didn't sleep very well last night. We went to bed around 10 pm and I didn't get up until about 8:30. When I got up, the group already had a large fire going, and we had burnt all the firewood we gathered the night before. So while I was getting my extra beauty sleep, the other participants in the retreat were hard at work. 

We had some cocoa around the fire, which was absolutely lovely. Aadesh really brought everything the group would need. Though he doesn't like cheese very much, he brought a lot of cheese snacks, fruit, candy, and even some extra campfire meals for everyone at the retreat. I was surprised that I was the only one who ate dinner last night, but in our activities throughout the day, I discovered that everyone had eaten a hearty breakfast the morning before we left, while I hadn't had breakfast 😅

I also had to shit, which wasn't very fun lol. The area where we had camped had a lot of campsites around and very little brush. Lots of trees, but little brush. That meant that just about everywhere I walked to find a spot to poop was actually a camp site... Not to mention, the trail coming into the lake was a switchback that overlooked basically the entire area. There was almost nowhere to hide (shit). But I was able to find a spot to dig a little hole, crouch, and do the deed 🙃

After everyone had drank some hot cocoa and a few of us had eaten some breakfast, we headed out for the second meditation activity of the retreat. We walked a bit up a stream that was next to our campsite to a large boulder field off of White Baldy Peak. The retreat was called a boudlering meditation retreat, and I had been a bit hesitant about participating in a boudlering activity as I don't feel very comfortable with rock climbing at all. However, and perhaps because I had expressed some hesitation to Aadesh prior to the retreat, we were not bouldering for this mediation. Instead, we were going to do some scrambiling in the boulder field.

As we neared the boudler field, Aadesh started to explain the purpose and details of the mediation we were going to participate in. He talked about how the boulder field was formed over hundreds of thousands of years, starting with the formation of the mountains and then the erosion and other events that caused the giant boulders to break off and fall into the valley. He talked about how those boulders are giant and heavy, and if we weren't going into that boulder field today, those boulders might not have any reason to move from where they currently lay. The boulders had an aspect of stillness about them. He said that as we engaged in this bouldering (scrambling) meditation, we should see if we could borrow any of that stillness from the boulders for ourselves. Even though we would be moving through the boulder field, one purpose of the meditation was to find stillness in ourselves.

Aadesh explained that we should all seek our own path through the boudler field, that we would find our own routes and our own destinations. He said that those routes were an analogy for our lives; that each of us takes a unique path in life and that none of us needs to follow the path that another takes. Instead, as we make our way scrambling across the boulders, we should be mindful of each step, each place we put our feet and our hands, the way the boulders move or not, and appreciate each part of the path we take through the boulder field. And as we do this, we might find that we feel that same appreciation for the path that we are taking in life. 

Aadesh offered lots of encouraging thoughts and primarily hoped that we would enjoy our time on the rocks. Throughout the exercise, he would scramble between each of the participants multiple times, share a thought, ask how it was going, and then with a grin and a kind word, he would be off again to check in with another participant. 

In my own meditation, I had a few interesting thoughts. 

First, as I started out moving across the boulders, I found myself moving very slowly, trying to think about, feel, and appreciate every movement I made across these giant granite boulders. I tried to take in the texture of the rocks as I put my hands on them and feel the movement, if any, of the boulders as I pressed my full weight into my feet. I noticed striations in the boulders, the different mineral compositions that made them and the interesting colors and textures that they created. As Aadesh came by, he brought my attention to the sound of glacier water trickling under the boulders and told me to look for things other than rocks in the boulder field like spider webs and consider how long that web might have been there. 

Then, after some time, I found myself a bit stuck. There was a large boulder near me that I was worried I might topple and some smaller loose rocks in the areas around it. I thought about going back the way I came. I looked up at the other participants to see where they had gone and saw that one of them was on top of a very large cool-looking boulder and the other was headed towards another fun-looking area. As I looked back at the path I had chosen--and that I would now have to double back on--I felt a little jealousy for the paths that my friends had taken. I wished I was on their path and in their shoes. This brought my attention back to what Aadesh had guided us on earlier: that we are all on our own paths in this boudler field and in life. I had chosen a path that I was no longer happy with, and seeing other people's paths and preferring those to my current path, I was now going to make some changes and head in their direction. I would still have to take my own unique path to get there, but there was nothing stopping me from making the decision to change my mind. 

I continued to scramble for a bit of time, moving across several cool boulders on my way up the side of the mountain toward a path of trees that were growing in this immense boulder field. It took me some time, and also a bit more effort, but I finally scaled the area I was in and arrived at the mountain side forest. I took some time to appreciate the distance and height I had traversed and scaled. I looked out and saw one of my friends all the way on the other side of the boulder field. The other was completely out of view. Then Aadesh called out to us, letting us know that the meditation would be ending shortly and we should all meet back at camp when we were ready. 

I took a few more moments to take in the meditation and then started on my way down the side of the mountain. I noticed almost immediately that I was moving much more quickly down the mountain than I had moved up it. Because I was moveing so quickly, and with greater ease, I had far less physical input. Most of my moves were made solely with my feet, at times I even jumped down several feet to get down the mountain. I felt like it was a lot easier and a lot more fun. I thought about the role of gravity in my increased enjoyment and realized at one point that it was gravity that pulled these boulders to the places that they were at. It was gravity that made this boulder field in the first place. And in my descent, I had a moment where I was a boulder in a boulder field too. Though I was not still like the boulders were now, I was sharing in an experience these boulders knew. I may have stolen stillness from them, but I stole gravity for a moment and that brought stillness to my heart.

There is not much more to report about the rest of the day. We tore down camp and hiked out. The hike was pretty difficult for me but all the participants were very patient and kind with me. Nobody made me feel bad for being the slowest hiker out.

There was lots of traffic in the Little Cottonwood Canyon on our way out due to Oktoberfest happening somewhere further up the canyon. So there was a bit of rockstart energy for us coming out of the canyon and walking by all the cars in traffic with our backpacking gear and a handful of people asking us about our trip.

I arrived back at Caroline's apartment and was pleasantly surprised to see her before she went to work. Then I had a nice easy evening with McGee untill she got back from work and now I'm typing this journal entry with my laptop sitting on her legs across my lap. I guess you could say it was a very good weekend ☺️