---
layout: post
title: growth | determinism
categories: microblog
---

Yesterday was a good and productive day for me. Unfortunately I don't have much to show from it yet...

I started off the day by going to the gym with a friend. He is very smart. He's a machine learning expert, probably one of the best in the world. We have been entertaining an ongoing conversation about determinism. At the beginning of our conversation, he was a religious person who believed in free will and I was an atheist that did not. He asked me how I view the world if I didn't believe in free will and I told him that I believed in determinism. We have been talking about this topic for nearly a year now. 

Yesterday we talked about some of the more prominent places where determinism fails to describe the universe. Sure, ona  day-to-day basis, events seem to be fairly predicatable (cause and effect and all) but there are phenomena that models of basic physics just don't seem to be able to predict all that well.

Starting with quantum physics, there are events that we simply don't seem to be able to measure. There doens't seem to be very much predictability when it comes to subatomic particles. In some cases, no cause and effect. This goes all the way back to the moment of the Big Bang, where the very concept of spacetime seems to break down, lending us no opportunity to understand causal relationships between things and between events. In the past, I would have argued that we simply don't have the ability to calculate or measure such phenomena _yet_. Perhaps some day in the future, we might. And true, we _might_ be able to understand quantum phenomena _someday_ in the _future_. But for now, my belief in determinism relied on a divine mystery fallacy, and therefore is not justified.

Next, and perhaps the biggest influence in my changed opinion yesterday, my friend brought up astrophysics. Specifically, he explained that concepts of basic physics only approximated the movement of celestial bodies. However generally accurate our models are, they have be imprecise enough that most prominent astrophysicists have talked about our models as only approximations. Although these approximations may be highly accurate and useful, approximation is not congruent with the concept of determinism. Approximation would be more compatible with the concept of stochasticity. Therefore, not just quantum, but large bodies also fail to obey the laws of basic physics, meaning that cause and effect (at least the way it happens at our scale) does not apply to 2 of 3 scales in the universe. That is to say, the universe as a whole cannot be described as deterministic.

Perhaps there is a case to be made for determinism being an emergent property of the unverse as we see at the scale from our perspective as humans. Sure, maybe. But there's also the possibility that any deterministic model would merely _approximate_ just as basic physics models do for large bodies. And this, while not "model" of determinism at our scale even exists. So even if I win the battle of determinism at our scale (which doesn't seem likely), I've already lost the war on a deterministic universe.

I've had to deal with the physiological effects of cognitive dissonance since coming to this conclusion. I held determinism pretty deepy as a belief. The thing that determinism offered me, more than anything, was a shortcut to understanding other people. I viewed other people as not doing the things they do because they wanted to harm me personally, rather people do the things they do because they were destined to do them; they can't help their own nature. I'm not sure if I have to throw everything out with my newlost determinist's worldview. Perhaps I can still find that understanding of other people without having to view them as robotically inhuman. The power just may be inside of me to not have to dehumanize people... yikes.
