---
layout: post
title: 2nd and 3rd missed post
categories: microblog
---

I've missed several days. I'm kind of sad about it. I think I'll start writing from the perspective of the day it is. Typically I write in the morning bc then I know I can commit to writing and also giving myself time to write enough. Trying to slow down the day or even speed it up to be able to write before going to sleep is a little difficult. But I can dedicate more time to writing when I do it first thing in the morning. The writers I know if my life have typically been morning writers, so I'm wiling to bet I'm onto somehting here.

A few days ago I had a phone call with an old friend. He is a friend I made my freshman year of college. I was going to a community college in Washington state and he was one of two Spanish instructors there at the time. I never took any Spanish courses, but I had a campus job and asked my manager if there were any TA jobs in the Spanish department. She told me there were no jobs with the Spanish department at the time, but she liked me a lot and told me that if the instructors had expressed any interest in a TA, she could probably create a job for that department. So I just went over to the Spanish classes and tried to talk to one of the instructors and let them know I was interested in being a TA. That's how I becames friends with Ricardo Chama. 

I TA'd for him for 2 quarters before transferring to a University, but those quarters turned us into lifelong friends. We still talk every couple of months. I think he is one of the most intelligent people I've ever met and also one of the friendliest. Every time I visit him in Yakima, he is out at a coffee shop talking to everybody there. He is one of those friendships I treasure deeply.

Work has been kicking my ass lately. There is just a lot that people need and I'm having to shift my priorities on a daily basis. I'm doing okay being agile with the number of obstacles that come my way, but it's just draining.

On Thursday, my partner and I went to the batting cages together. We've been talking about doing that for a while. I didn't really think it would happen because she seemed worried that she wouldn't be able to get back into the box the way that she did almost 10 years ago. So I kind of didn't want to pressure her to do something she wasn't excited to do. But then she suggested it the other day and I was really excited. So we went and got some batting gloves and then headed to the batting cages. She did a lot better than I think she thougth she would. She did better than me imo, and she might qualify it, but I think she would agee lol. I did okay. On the slower machines I was pretty solid. But there was a machine that threw 75 MPH and I really struggled to hit off of it. That was too bad. I'd like to go back and get back up to speed. I'm really glad to be dating someone who shares a lot of my hobbies and tastes. I'm not sure how many people out there I could go to an art festival with last weekend, batting cages during the week, and a curiosities exhibit today (we're going to a curiosities exhibit today).

I missed a lot of days, so I've written about Wednesday, Thursday, and now I guess I'll write a little something about Friday too (today is Saturday). I hadn't slept well Thursday night and Friday morning I was upset about something that had happened the day before. My partner could tell that something was up and asked me about it. I was hesitant to bring it up because she was in a hurry to get out the door for some plans, but I didn't want her worrying about it all day. So I did say that something was wrong but that I wanted to talk about it when she got back. But she insisted on asking about it before she left. She did end up being late to her plans, so I think next time one of us has something to bring up during a time crunch we should make sure to talk about it after obligations have been taken care of. But, I cannot fully express in writing the way that I feel about my partner. She is understanding and patient with me in things that I don't remember any every having been patient and understanding. She has proven time and again that my insecurities and sensitivities are not a burden or a threat to her. She loves me exactly as I am, even in my weakness and unsurety. I could not be more grateful for her.
