---
layout: post
title: happy | neighbor
categories: microblog
---

Yesterday was another good, busy day.

On the heels of a great end to the day, my partner and I started the day with a walk and some writing. I got started on writing a little early bc I had missed a couple days before. 

Then we went to breakfast as a diner chain called Jim's. I like Jim's even though it's not great. Around here, it is one of the places that feels like a local diner instead of a large chain like IHOP. But, Jim's in a chain nonetheless...

After breakfast we went to the Oddities and Curiosities expo in Sandy. It's exactly what you think it is unless you don't know what Oddities and Curiousities are, then you would find exactly what you are looking for with a single internet search. There were lots of taxidermy and skulls. A surprizing amount of skulls, actually. All I saw were large steer skulls and some smaller mamalian skulls (think rodents or small dogs). I'm not well-versed in skull science, so I'm not exactly sure what I was looking at.

The show was a lot of fun. I'm not super into creepy things, but just enough to have enjoyed _most_ of the show. I'm really fortunate that my partner is the same way. 

I'm really lucky to be so compatible with my partner. I think I may have written about this the other day, but we have a lot in common on a lot of different fronts. She is a big softball fan and I played baseball when I was younger. We like to go out and play catch; it's one of my favorite things that we do together. She is very into hiking, and hiking is something I've always wanted to be better at. I would love to do more campling and learning outdoor skills. I'm sure with time she will teach me more about the outdoors :). But we also share several preferences when it comes to music, food, media, and the list goes on. I'm just very grateful for her.

In my partner's neighborhood, there is an older man named Jiim who is very friendly. He has a dog named Risa and if you are in the neighborhood, there is no way you haven't seen and met Jim and Risa. 

McGee has not been particularly fond of Risa, barking and growling at her when we see them around the neighborhood. Jim has always insisted that we stop by to let the dogs get to know eachother. When I first started dating Carline, I didn't quite know who everyone in the neighborhood was. And she's very introverted, so she didn't either. But with time, I started to introduce myself to people I would see around, and told Jim that we would stop by some time. Well, Caroline works a lot, so I end up taking McGee on a lot of walks alone these days, and I ended up walking by Jim's house when he was just sitting on his patio. So I finally stopped by and let McGee check out Jim's yard. McGee loved it and hasn't had any problems with Risa since. We've stopped by Jim's house a couple times since then. Now every time McGee walks by Jim's house, he stops at the gate and insists that we go in. Yesterday he gave the most protest about going to Jim's and it was very cute. 
