---
layout: post
title: the fina - mocha
categories: coffee
---

Coffee with Caroline vol. 3

**Description :** This is a sweet and chocolately easy mocha. That's it. Oh, and it's named after my sister who orders half coffee half hot chocolate at diners.

**Tasting notes:** Rich chocolate, sublte additional flavors depending on your preparation

**Renders:** 2 mugs

**Time to prepare:** like 12 minutes or something

**You will need:**
- Coffee _(*Caroline recommends Café Mam's [Trinity Blend](https://cafemam.com/products/trinity-blend?_pos=1&_sid=822c976e7&_ss=r))_
- Hot chocolate _(*Caroline likes Ghiradelli or Target brand peppermint cocoa mix_)
- Half and half
- _Optional_: Flavored syrup
- French press
- Frother

## 1. Make coffee

Caroline has explained this step several times. 

As a reminder:

1. Coarsely grind 4 generous scoops of coffee
2. Add to french press
3. Almost fill french press with boiling water
4. Let coffee steep for 5 minutes or so.

## 2. Prepare the cocoa

Literally just put a packet of cocoa mix in a mug.

## 3. Stir the coffee grounds

Make sure to use a non-metalic utensil. 

_Caroline loves to use her wooden hedgehog-themed soft cheese knife._

## 4. Prepare the foam

In a microwavable glass, add some milk and optionally a splash of falvored syrup. 

_You aren't ready to heat it yet, so just leave it on the counter until you're ready for that._

## 5. Mix the mocha

_First, you're probably hungry. If you haven't made breakfast yet, this is a good time to start or think about starting that. Hmm... maybe waffles sound good today..._

Plunge, unplunge, and replunge the french press.

Then pour about a third of a mug of coffee into your prepped mug. 

Mix the cocoa and coffee (Caroline uses her frother for this), then fill the mug with coffee, leaving room for frothed milk.

## 6. Finish with hot foam

Heat up your flavored milk for a few seconds in the microwave.

Froth the milk and pour over the top of your coffee.

And, _voila_, you're flavored fun Fina-style mocha is ready to enjoy!
