---
layout: post
title: happy | good days
categories: microblog
---

It always makes me sad when I miss a few days of writing in this journal. There shouldn't be anything to be sad about, when I miss writing here, it's because life is so good that I don't have the time or energy to write. But I supposed I'm sad that I didn't document how good life was and how happy I am. Hopefully, I will be able to make more time for writing in this journal, but if not, I'm still having a great time.

Last week we flew to Seattle to visit my family. It was a really good trip and I wish I had written more about our trip. I did write a couple entries on the plane, and I will probably publish those tomorrow. 

After we went to Deception Pass, the next day we went out to breakfast with the family in downtown Arlington. The town is really cute, but we were a little short on time during out trip. We did stop by the Arlington Hardware store, which has become a bit of a hot spot in Arlington in the past few years. They have a clothing boutique upstairs with fashionable country and work-aesthetic clothes. While we were there, we found a little onsie to get for Fina's baby and we gave it to her and had her open it before we left. I hope she really enjoyed the gesture. I am really happy for her, it seems like she is really happy out in Nashville.

We spent the evening with the family, mostly cooking and eating. Several people came to visit, most to see Fina. And that was fine. I got to spend some time with Caroline, talk with my family, and just enjoy the environment. It was definitely high energy compared to what we are used to, but it was a good environment nonetheless.

We had to leave pretty early to be able to return the car and catch a kind of early flight. I made sure we left with plenty of time to make it to the airport in the case of traffic. That meant that we eneded up arriving at the airport with some time to spare, so we went to breakfast at my favorite restaurant at SeaTac, Floret. It was a nice moring and a good trip home. 

Several times during the trip, Caroline told me how much fun she was having. I was really glad as I was worried that she might not enjoy the number of people and the energy at the house. But she seemed to be able to handle it pretty well and she got along with everyone. I love her so much and this trip meant a lot to me for our relationship.

Today, a group of friends met to do an ice bath and then go out to breakfast. It was a really good way to start the day. After the ice bath and the breakfast with friends, I drove one of the friends home and ended up staying at her place for a few hours cathing up. She has a very exciting life, particularly in the romance department. I got her caught up on the situation with that one friend, and that was a pretty heavy thing to talk about.

In the evening, I cleaned my house in preparation for having some guests over tomorrow night, and then I headed up to Caroline's apartment to take care of McGee and wait for her to get home to spend some time with her. 

Overall, today was actaully a really good day. Definitely the kind of day I would like to have more of in the future.
