---
layout: post
title: "tired, insecure, happy | \"home\""
categories: microblog
---

Today I travelled home from Washington. It's funny, any time I travel to Washington I tell people I'm going home. But then when I leave Washington, I say that I'm going home. I guess this is probably a pretty common experience for transplants. I think I'm pretty lucky to have been able to live in different parts of the country. I love going "home" to Washington, but I sure am glad to be home. 

It was a really good trip. It all happened really fast. My brothers had great sports events, both of them won. My youngest brother is the least interested in athletics, but he has been really impressive on his school's tennis team. I'm not quite sure how tennis teams work, but it seems that he is the team's #1, which is pretty darn cool. 

My other brother had a great football game. He has always been an amazing athlete, really standing out from his peers since he was a child. He's definitely not a child anymore. He's still a bit on the short side, but he is fast, strong, and thick. Every time he caught the ball (which was more than 5) he broke at least one tackle. He's a very talented football player. I sure hope he goes on to play a bit more ball.

It was really nice to be home. It's very nice to have the flexibility of working from a place that isn't the office or my home office. It gives me a lot of flexibility to visit family or even go on vacations and get a head start by traveling on a weeknight for example. It's just been really nice. 

I spent a bit of time with my parents. It's nice to be able to talk to them, mostly to get the validation that I'm living my life the right way. As much as I have some reservations about how they decide to live their life, they are good people and good parents. And they are people whose opinion I genuinely seek in my life. They are some of the few people in life who genuinely have my well-being at heart, and I know I can trust them when they give their insights and advice. But beyond having good intentions, they are genuinely good people who would do their best to help someone regardless of their connection to them. 

I know that as children grow up, they tend to develop the idea that they know more than their parents. When it comes to 5-year-olds and 15-year-olds, this tends to be an annoyance more than anything. Now that I'm 32, I notice when I seem to think I have life figured out better than my parents. I can think genuinely of a couple topics that I think I have a better grapple on than them. And by this, I don't mean just a formal education or a professional trade. I'm talking about general life topics that people might have strong opinions about, for example, finances, relationships, children, parenting, education, politics, ecology, and so on. I'm not saying that I know more than my parents on these topics, but that the topics
about which I do catch myself feeling more informed are these kinds of topics. 

But viewing these conversations in restrospect, I wonder how I could possibly know better than them. What makes me so confident that I could know more about how to have relationships or what makes a sound public policy? What makes me think that my religious views could be better-informed than theirs or that my relationship (less than a year old) could give me the long-lasting insights that outmatches their 30 years of marriage? Like, where do I find the nerve to feel superior in any way?

There are differences in our generations. I do believe that my parents were better-positioned than theirs in navigating the economy and society. I mean, the peaceful age of the US alone accounts for much better opportunities than enlistment and office jobs much better than unionized factory and service work. I do think there is much to be said about generation gaps, whether those be issues of culture, information, or skillset. But even then, does the fact that I am a programmer rather than a salesman and that generalized psychology is far more accessible and normalized to my generation really make me that much more better-suited to make life decisions than my parents? I genuinely dont know.

I feel a bit sensitive to the experience of feeling superior, especially to people who have more life experience and my well-being at heart. Those times when I directly feel better-informed than my parents or times when I don't necessarily feel that way but I get chatty and opinionated without realizing that I'm dominating a conversation. A few years ago, I noticed that I rarely dominated conversations. But in the past year or so, I feel that I've noticed a bit more frequently. I'm not sure what change has occurred, but I think I would prefer to not experience the feeling of having dominated conversations with people, regardless of which person in the conversation is more knowledgeable. And even if there is a difference in knowledge or specialization or whatever, I certainly don't want that sense of superiority to turn into a kind of contempt or condescension (it hasn't felt that way for me, but as I notice myself talking more and being more opinionated in conversation, I worry that I'm headed in that direction).

I don't know if my parents feel that I act the way a 5yo or a 15yo does, though I'm fairly certain they think it from time-to-time. I'm sure I genuinely do act like a 15yo from time-to-time. What crosses my mind at this moment is if I am doing it too much. I don't know if I'll ever have a good grasp on that. 

I've always been a bit insecure about myself. In my youth this caused me to act out to try to please people. As I grew into my early adulthood, I became embarassed of the ways that I acted as a child and teenager and began to be quiet as a means of settling my insecurities. Then, as I developed a stronger sense of self, I got louder, more self-assured, and disagreeable. Now, I find myself seeking to be both confident and kind. But I'm not sure how good I am at that balance. And, even if I am confident and kind, I wonder if there is something about my opinions, their accuracy or degree of interest, that leaves people feeling unfulfilled in conversation with me. 

I wonder if maybe I still have a ways to go on developing my personal security--I wonder if that's a work that will ever reach a sense of completion. Maybe it wont. Maybe I'll feel like a child, even though I'm a grown-ass man, for the rest of my life.
