---
layout: post
title: grateful | social anxiety
categories: microblog
---

We are just leaving Phoenix now. We will be driving all day today to make it home tonight. It was such a fun trip. Caroline's parents are really great and really know how to host. They hosted a couple diners while we were here, every morning was a super vibey breakfast and coffee situation, and they even did some great lunch/afternoon snacks and drinks. I really enjoyed spending time here this weekend. 

Caronline is very sensitive to my comfort in social situations. I've noticed it before--that she checks in on me in groups, at parties, and this weekend at her parents' place. I don't typically struggle in large groups, even though it's not my preferred atmpsphere. I can hold my own and tend to make friends even in unfavorable environments. But I know that Caroline is pretty sensitive in large groups and high-energy environments, so I really appreciate that she checks in on me in the same situations. The truth is that I have a pretty high tolerance for situations I don't like, but it is nice to have someone understand that others may be uncomfortable with certains situations and activities. 

My dad has very high expectations when it comes to social gatherings. He is a strong extrovert, always enjoying to host, attend parties, and chat up a stranger at a public place. I have never been this way and often struggled at family gatherings as a child. I remember being expected to give hugs to family members and family friends, many of whom seemed like complete strangers to me. I remember the disappointment my parents had in me for not wanting to give hugs to people. And sure, those people may have been my own aunts, uncles, and grandparents at times. But I remember not feeling very close to them at first, especially shortly after my parents had divorced and my mom had just recently remarried. My stepdad's (the person previously referred to as "dad") parent's felt like strangers at first. And honestly, they didn't care for me much. Not that I can really blame them too much, I was a sensitive kid from the suburbs and they were both the children of farmers. Yeah, they probably thought I was too soft (and look at me now, only softer 🤷‍♀️). 

I guess this is all to say, I eventually learned how to behave in social settings, even when they were uncomfortable for me. I don't really resent anyone for feeling weird about the way I am. I'm so used to it at this point in my life. And as much as I really feel like it's their loss for having a thing about the way I am, I try not to let it get to me or influence the way I feel about myself. I go out of my way to relate to people and participate in activities that mean a lot to other people even if I don't care much for the activity itself. I just care about people. And if that's lost on them, I suppose that's just too bad. 

Maybe I'm making it sounds like this is a lot easier than it is. It actaully weighs on me very heavily. I'm often worried about the way people think about me--whether they like me or not, whether they appreciate my efforts, if they think I'm helpful, if I'm the kind of person they would like to work with, if they think I am reasonable and understanding, etc. I care a lot, and I overthink a lot. It feels like a very normal part of life for me. But my goal is to sort of melt into the fabric of reality. I want to shake this ego that I've spent so many years building and just be a part of the orchestra of existence, and truly enjoy the music. I feel like I'm getting a lot better at it. I can keep getting better at it, which isn't even the point. It's not about a skill, it's about the way I feel as a thing that will be for a short while and the way that I will be around other things. I think I'd prefer if I and the other things around me enjoyed existing.
