---
layout: post
title: happy | the best taco dinner
categories: microblog
---

Today was an awesome day. It started off with a pankuken that Caroline's dad made. Then we kind of lounged around the house for a bit, played in the pool for about 2 hours and then we made the best taco dinner I think I've ever had. 

Caroline made her signature tacos al pastor, her dad made some shrimp tacos, there was carne asada, and these mushroom and queso fundido tacos that were so f*cking good omfg. It was such a good dinner. We also had some ceviche that her mom made and then some cheesecake for dessert. It was such a good taco dinner I seriously can't believe how good Caroline's parents are in the kitchen. They are so cool. Caroline has told me about them before and they sounded really cool, then meeing them in person a couple months ago and hanging with them this weekend has confirmed--they are some pretty cool people. It's very obvious now where Caroline gets her great taste from.

I got to meet one of Caroline's friends from when she was at the ATC training facility. He was super cool. The kind of guy I would definitely be friends with. It was really nice to meet another one of Caroline's friends. A lot of her friends are scattered across the US so I've only met a handful in SLC. And Caroline isn't from Utah, so the majority of the friends she's made in college and other times in her life don't really live close. Whereas, I have lots of friends in Utah due to my past life as a Mormon. Anyway, it was just a super awesome day with Caroline's family and I seriously couldn't imagine being happier with my life. I know it's super cheesy to say, and there's a part of me that even feels embarassed to say it. I know that other times will come, that life won't always be perfect or feel this way, but I'm really happy to be able to say it now. 

Thinking about this now, I wonder if life will be better at some point in the future. I wonder if this is how life goes for a lot of people; I wonder if people find themselves in "the best time of their life" over and over again. There have been times when life was really good for me in the past. Those times have been followed by difficult, sad times. Sometimes I even thought I might like to quit altogether. At those times, I couldn't have imagined life being this good. Hell, even in the good times I don't think I could have imagined life being this good. So I wonder if there will be a time in my future when I feel even better about life than I do now. I wonder if it could even get better than it is now. I might venture to say that I hope so, but I genuinely can't even imagine it. So I guess if it is, I just be very happy to discover it 😊
