---
layout: post
title: happy | time and empathy
categories: 
---

I'm starting to feel a slight bit of burnout from all the things I've committed to and had to keep in mind as I try to be successful in my endeavors. That art challenge takes up about an hour of time every day, and I have to keep up to be able to post something every day and not fall behind. I am genuinely excited about some of the things happening at work. I feel motivated to do them, and even though I often run into blockers, I still feel motivated to try. And I haven't even had time to look at my club stuff this week. I've been truly overcommitted on my time. 

But I'm still trying to keep up with the things I've committed to that I think will make me enjoy my time a little bit more. Like writing, for example. I'm in a bit of a rush rn as I write this. But I'm trying to make time for the things that I choose to do instead of having my time driven and owned by external pressures. It's often a balancing game of give-and-take where the things I want to do require some efforts on my part to be sustainable and that's a counter-intuitive use of my time, since I was trying to use it for the things I wanted to do in the first place.

Time is a funny thing. Everyone has the same amount of time, yet we view it so individually and even compare ourselves to others. The truth is that we only have one perception of time: the way we percieve time through our unique experience of it. When we compare our use of time to others, we are really only projecting our varied personal experiences of time onto others. In that way, it's similar to the experience of empathy. Some believe that through empathy they can accurately experience the genuine emotions that another person is feeling. But the reality is a bit more removed--when we empathize, we project our previous experiences of emotion onto the external physical expressions of another person. Sometimes these projections are accurate guesses about what another person is feeling. At other times, we get the emotion very wrong. For example, when someone tells us about a negative experience that happened in their past and we feel the need to apologize and express sympathy for the experience, but that person explains that they no longer feel much towards the situation. When these moments happen, I think we are accurately sympathetic towards another person, but that doesn't mean that our empathy is an accurate tool in knowing how that person feels about their own experience. This is always the case with empathy. Likewise, this is always the case with time. Time is the same for all of us; it is not time itself that is different but other factors about our lives, circumstances, resources, responsibilities, decisions, etc. that create the different experiences in time. 

On the other hand, I have a friend who has a medical condition (I believe it's classified as a mental condition) that affects the way that she relates to time. She genuinely struggles to keep up with time to be punctual to activities, events, and even work. I can't speak much to the specifics of what causes her condition or what that experience is like. I know that her condition genuinely makes time a difficult challenge or her, and I don't mean to invalidate the experience that is her condition. But, I would maintain that her 24 hours/day are still the same as mine, but we have different medical circumstances that create a certain filter through which we view time. 

There are plenty of resources on time and time management. I recently read the book Essentialism, which talks about how time is the only finite resource we have in life and then goes on to encourage readers to use that time with a unique level of intentionality. A friend of mine read a book that sounds like it takes a similar approach to time management called "Time Management for Mortals." I think I would like to read that book here in the next several months. And I think I will as my friend will likely want to share that book with the club.
