---
layout: post
title: stressed, thankful | times get tough
categories: microblog
---

I've been feeling bad about not writing every day that I haven't written. It's not that I couldn't find 15 minutes to write, but that would have felt like a rush to write something that really came from the heart. That sounds corny, but I think it's important to what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to find it in me to write on a regular basis and to write about things that actually matter. It's not enough for me to just record the events of a day, though that typically serves well as a guideline for starting myself on a stream of consciousness style of freewriting. I know this practice isn't perfect, but it's enough for me and I'm excited to do it. 

I had been thinking about starting a practice like this a short while before Caroline undertook the Artist's Way, a creative challenge that takes several weeks and a lot of effort to complete. When she started, she quickly was assigned the task of writing daily morning pages. From what I understand, when one does morning pages, they are supposed to do them in a way that encourages true creativity and freedome of thought. The intention is to never look at what you have written again, once you have completed the practice with morning pages. Obviously, my approach to what I've been writing is a little different. Instead of throwing my thoughts away to allow for total free creativity, I publish mine online for all to see... Hopefully at some point I will be able to do some analysis of what I've written. I think I'd like to do some NLP on my entries after a year or so of writing and even document my mood.

One thing I'd like to write about today, which will be quite personal, is a difficult disagreement that Caroline and I had the other week (yeah, I've been missing my daily writing that often...). Whenever I am feeling down or like I need an increased level of affection, Caroline has been quick to provide me whatever it is that I need. Sometimes, I don't even realize that I need something or know what is causing me to feel down. But when I finally come around to it, I try to let her know how I'm feeling. I try to be forthright about my motivations for certain behaviors, even when I'm being difficult or unreasonable. 

We had made plans for late next year that we were both excited about. But, for a few reasons in my life that I didn't take into account as we were making plans, I realized I wasn't going to be able to follow through on those plans. This meant that I had to change the plans that we were already making together and that we were both really excited about. When I explained what was going on to Caroline, I wasn't entirely sure if I had to cancel our plans; maybe there was some way that we could make it work, but I needed her help in figuring out how. That probably made the conversation a bit more difficult as I didn't really know what I wanted--or at least what I was proposing as the course of action. This conversation was difficult, and understanding the balance between solving the problem, dealing with and processing emotions about the situation, and trying to stay unified in the situation was something that I didn't know how best to accomplish. But, through it all, Caroline was very understanding. She understood that it was going to be difficult for me to follow through on the plans that we had made. And, as much as it was super dissappointing for both of us, we wanted to set ourselves up for success over the next year and not feel burdened by the demands of a plan that was going to stretch us too thin. 

Working with a partner is hard. When reality sets in and life gets difficult, I don't really know how people keep their priorities stright. I've been pretty upset with myself the past couple weeks because not only have I not been able to find the time to do the things that matter to me (like writing, for example), but I've also struggled to feel like I can pay full attention in other areas of my life like in my relationship with Caroline. I find myself responding to work messages and texts when I'm on walks with her and McGee, and I know that bothers her, but I genuinely can't focus on life because of the demands on my time and attention. It's been incredibly frustrating and I've been really beating myself up about it. I'm just thankful that Caroline has been so understanding of me and is willing to take me as I am and work with me when times get tough. 

I think that's all I'm going to say today.
