---
layout: post
title: foolish | conferences and resolutions
categories: microblog
---

Today I'm at a conference again. Not sure if I mentioned that yesterday. I'm at a conference for language tenchonology. There have been some really cool presentations and thoughts expressed at this conference. In the past, I've been used to conferences being a time for companies to sell their products. Presentations have often been pretty uninteresting bc the presentations were sales pitches more than they were novel information, products or ideas. Companies take the same old shit, package it in a nice presentation with misleading buzzwords, and then begin a massive group text scam that the audience paid to attend. Yeah, I don't typically like conferences. 

However, this year's conference was different. I don't exactly know how. I know in a lot of ways, the presentations were still just sales pitches. But, I think there was more novel content presented this year than other years and other conferences I've been to. A big portion of the conference has been this ai innovation competition, featuring lighting talks about ai innovation. Perhaps it's here that I've been fulfilled in my need for novel ideas. Likewise, some of the panels have been interesting as panelists have said things that have typically been taboo to say, particularly that machine translation is going to put translators out of work. That has been a recurring theme this year. It's sad to think of linguists who will be out of work, but it's a fact that folks need to start preparing for. 

I have been to the ICU conference a couple times. That conference is for internationalization and unicode. That conference is almost always novel content. But I think a large part of that conference is open source multilinguial tenchology, so the people there are motivated by causes rathe than money like they are at this conference and most other conferences I've been to.

Have I mentioned how entirely happy I am in my relationship? Last night my partner and I had a difficult miscommunication. We haven't been able to spend much time together lately as I have been out of town and busy with work _and_ with the projects I've been doing. And she has been busy as well but I was also out of town when she had a couple days off from work, which she doesn't usually have. This is all to say that both of us have felt a little dissatisfied with the amount of time we've been able to spend together. Yesterday I was a little strung out, but I also had a last minute idea for that art challenge I've been participating in. We had an event that we were going to, and it was something that she had made a big effort to be able to attend with me, but it was also something that she wouldn't typically enjoy. But because I had that thing on my mind, I asked if she would drive so I could work on it during the ride down there. Then, we had a night to ourselves, and we were both looking forward to spending time together. I thought we could watch a show together, which would be a good way to spend time together but would also allow me to work on that idea that I had. What ended up happening was she felt pretty lonely the whole evening since my focus was somewhere else. I didn't realize how much that had hurt her feelings as I had felt really connected to her the whole time. 

We had a difficult and vulnerable conversation about what had happened and how she had felt. She felt lonely and guilty for being hurt by something that obviously wasn't intentional and I felt so stupid for not realizing that she was seeking my attention. I realized it in hindsight, but wished I had done so many small things differently. I work so hard to try to make her happy, so missing something so simple by such a large margin just feels so stupid...

But she loves me. And I love her. And through her hurt feelings and my mistakes, we were able to see that each other is trying to make this the best relationship possible. We were able to focus on expressing feelings and solutions without getting too caught up on blame. That is such an important aspect of this relationship to me. Idk if that's a common thing or something that good relationships are supposed to have, but I find it such a key part of successful relationships. All people make mistakes, even the best partners. But if a problem can result in a solution, rather than blame, I feel like bad situations can be minimized and--woudln't you know it--resolved.
